Chapter Name : GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO INQUIRIES AND TRIALS
Title : Power to postpone or adjourn proceedings
Description :
[(1) In every inquiry or trial the proceedings shall be 
continued from day-to-day until all the witnesses in attendance have been examined, unless the Court finds the 
adjournment of the same beyond the following day to be necessary for reasons to be recorded:
Provided that when the inquiry or trial relates to an offence under section 376, section 376A, section 376B, 
section 376C or section 376D of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), the inquiry or trial shall, as far as possible be 
completed within a period of two months from the date of filing of the charge sheet.]
(2) If the Court, after taking cognizance of an offence, or commencement of trial, finds it necessary or 
advisable to postpone the commencement of, or adjourn, any inquiry or trial, it may, from time to time, for reasons 
to be recorded, postpone or adjourn the same on such terms as it thinks fit, for such time as it considers reasonable, 
and may by a warrant remand the accused if in custody:
Provided that no Magistrate shall remand an accused person to custody under this section for a term exceeding 
fifteen days at a time:
Provided further that when witnesses are in attendance, no adjournment or postponement shall be granted, 
without examining them, except for special reasons to be recorded in writing:
2
[Provided also that no adjournment shall be granted for the purpose only of enabling the accused person to 
show cause against the sentence proposed to be imposed on him.]
[[1. Subs. by Act 13 of 2013, s. 21, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 3-2-2013).
2. Ins. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 24 (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).]]
1
[Provided also that—
(a) no adjournment shall be granted at the request of a party, except where the circumstances are beyond 
the control of that party;
(b) the fact that the pleader of a party is engaged in another Court, shall not be a ground for adjournment;
(c) where a witness is present in Court but a party or his pleader is not present or the party or his pleader 
though present in Court, is not ready to examine or cross-examine the witness, the Court may, if thinks fit, 
record the statement of the witness and pass such orders as it thinks fit dispensing with the examination-in-chief 
or cross-examination of the witness, as the case may be.]
Explanation 1.—If sufficient evidence has been obtained to raise a suspicion that the accused may have 
committed an offence, and it appears likely that further evidence may be obtained by a remand, this is a reasonable cause for a remand.
Explanation 2.—The terms on which an adjournment or postponement may be granted include, in appropriate 
cases, the payment of costs by the prosecution or the accused.